OK, so we already made announcement about one
week extension about the lecture and lab 4:06
so November 3rd is the deadline for that.
I change it in the blackboard tool.
Uh, we promise I, I promise you to
do a review on the survey that,
uh, we made public.
I mean, we made and last.
A week right after the midterm exam.
Uh, here is the kind of a colorful
summary of your feedback.
So in the left side these
are about the questions.
The more green,
the more happier you are and the
less green or yellowish is kind of.
I mean, you are not satisfied
as you can see here in.
Meadow
here's the marker. Palm, yeah.
So in the labs in the first column
you see these are about the
exam that more than 50% of these
students expected easier exam.
And, uh, I mean, uh.
I mean, besides that, uh,
the your critique about the comment
about the lectures and the labs and etc.
So basically I uh,
color coded each comment, uh,
and you can see that I mean those
yellow ones are the majority of
the comments in the same category.
And then we have blue one.
The yellow One is about basically
the lectures and slide,
the blue ones are about the labs,
and there are some few more Gray.
One is about the TS and GS and the red one.
One of them was very interesting.
Very harsh comment.
But I like that so, uh, I'm going to,
uh, quickly go through your comments.
Uh, what I'm saying is that I
hear what you are telling me
and I agree with some of them.
I'll explain, uh in detail,
so majority of the comments were about
the lectures about this slide specifically.
Basically, most of you asked me to
put more written notes on my slides.
So as you can see, my slides are just.
More visual, uh, more.
I mean code about movies and etc
and nice comment, was that more?
Uh, it's not just putting biblical codes.
More important notes about the
topics of the lectures.
I'll explain about this.
This part is just a summary of your comment.
Uh, about organization of these slides.
I mean,
the way they are connected to
each other and the narration or
the storytelling of these slides
seems need more organization,
more example, or more hands on
practice coding in the lectures.
About the class.
There were some comments about
the chat box and the Q&A in
the middle of the lecture.
Uh,
I'll explain about this.
The second majority of comments were
about the assignments about the
lecture assignment, specifically,
uh, these students mostly says that
the lecture assignments are not
worth doing because the weight is
just 10% and it takes a lot of time.
So basically the tradeoff within the
benefit about collecting the points and
the time you spend on that is not worth it.
And also the question is
the lecture submission.
Elector assignments are kind of confusing or.
Yeah, you may have different
interpretation of the question.
Uh, the second a comment about the labs
is that I mean, adding more details.
The manual and the last one is that the
topics that are in the assignments.
For instance the lecture or the lab
assignments are not synchronized
with the topics that we cover in
this slide in that week.
So I'll explain about this again.
Uh, and the last few comments were about
the exams, so one comment was that.
I mean we shouldn't, uh,
extend the duration of the exam
more than the class duration,
as long as it is during the class.
Uh, another one is that there were some
questioning their midterm exam that, uh,
topics were not covered in the class.
So these are all your comments
and here are my answers.
Uh, to your comments, so. Ah.
The film I'm not going to give a
philosophical talk or something like that,
but the idea is that, uh.
Are we as a computer scientist?
We are going to build robots or algorithm
to help human individual old pic to
act like human but not the reverse.
So we are not going to ask you
to act like a robot,
so you're probably most of you.
I mean watch this brilliant video clip from
the Pink Floyd another brick in the wall.
So there's a huge difference between the
high school or I mean primary school.
And the,
uh,
I mean secondary school or the universities.
So basically here the main intention
is that to promote or motivate
your own critical thinking.
So the idea is that we shouldn't
just sit and receive the information
and memorize it and pass the exams.
We have to develop your own
critical thinking.
So this is another way to,
uh, explain this, uh?
As a computer scientist,
you can, uh,
select these three same things
in terms of the knee,
but totally different in terms of the
concept so you can be Google there.
You can be a person that who builds
a company like Google or Facebook,
or you can be a Google are as a person
who works in these big companies,
or you can be Google or as a
person just uses Google.
So these are different levels of,
uh, you can pick one of them,
but the main idea,
I mean,
my teaching style is that you
should aim high and you should
become a person who built big
companies or becoming entrepreneur.
So I'm not going to teach in a way that
you become a good Google Earth
person that just knows how to use
Google or how to find information
from search engines like Google.
So that's the reason that if you think
that you want you try to find the answers
in the Google for the midterm exam,
you may not be successful because
that was not the purpose of the exam.
So another idea is this.
I want you, I mean as a computer scientist,
I want you to become like, I mean Brian Fox,
Orlando Tools instead just become a
user of the system that they develop.
You have to become a person like
that you have to because you
have to develop your own system.
So that's why I motivate you to
build your own operating system
or your own shell instead of just
become a user of the their programs.
Yes I could.
I mean explain in details the batch
script commands and syntax and etc.
But I decided to leave it at the lab.
Why, because?
Uh, at the end of the day,
you become a batch script writer
and expert one.
But this is not the main intention.
As a computer scientist,
you have to become a developer
of your own shell.
That's a huge I mean difference.
So another thing is that you may
decide to become an admin of an
operating system such as Linux, but.
This is a better I'm in target.
If I were you.
I mean to becom to develop your
own operating system and then let
others use your own operating system.
So another picture is here a wants
you to become Dennis Ritchie,
who build operating system and the others
are just using his I mean product instead
of just being a user of the product.
So that's the main purpose of providing some.
I mean questions that tries to trigger
your own thinking instead of just
searching for the answers in the Google.
Another way to explain this is this,
uh, there's a whole paradigm
difference between these two concepts.
Lecture versus text presentation versus
book or dialogue versus monologue so.
Lecture the idea of vector is that
you have to present something
you have to discuss something,
and it's a dialogue.
Otherwise, you can download the book and
read as a monologue and you have you.
For instance,
you you have your own knowledge
and you connect it with the book
without connection with the other
student with the instructor or etc.
So if you want me to provide a
presentation that basically it's a
summary of the textbook as a kind of
and you sit just passively and listen
everything and then just two or one
night before the exam memorized these
slides and just passed the exam,
this is not the main intention.
I truly believe that, uh,
I have to provide some important notes.
Just as a reminder, just to kind of up,
we can say change kit,
meaning that you know the topic,
but you need some mnemonic to
remind you about that topic.
I agree with that,
but.
If you think that I just provide
the main important part of the
textbook in my slides and then I put
a question about those in the exam
and then you can simply pass it,
that's not the purpose.
And another thing is that you
shouldn't see the lectures,
assignments and labs as kind of practice
on the topics that we cover in the lecture.
They are complementary or they are
additional part of the lectures.
So as we said in the first part of
the lecture manuals and lab manuals,
there may be some topics that we just
leave it as a lecture assignment or
as loud assignment and we don't have
enough time to cover it in the lectures.
So these are part of the,
uh, I mean the whole course,
so you shouldn't just look at the
labs and lectures as a practice.
And now I mean my response to
a comment is this.
So about more written notes agree,
but again, do not.
Uh,
expect that my lectures becomes a
just the slides we have to attend
the lecture or we have to listen to
the video recording of the lectures.
It's it's not going to replace the lectures.
About the organization.
I totally agree, uh,
this is my first time that I
teach this course at this school,
so I have to make it more organized,
more connected, and make it better.
Narration of this story.
A time I bet it's going to be
to improve
that example. Sure, uh, as you can
see in last week and also this week,
the more we go move forward to the
coding part and doing the system calls,
I try to upload more sample C
program files and then more examples.
About the hands on experience.
Honestly, we don't have enough time
to do coding in during the lectures
and the main intention of the labs as
a part of the course is that I mean
you have to attend the lab sections.
So it's not. I mean, I know it's not easy.
You have to attend the lectures
you have to attend lab sections,
but that's the way it is in the university.
So you have to put the practice
or hands on exercises you have
to attend the lab sections.
I ask the lab instructors how many
students appear in your section
and honestly most of them say
that just one or two students.
They come and go. So, uh, not do that.
I mean, uh, I'm not going to
cover everything in my lectures,
so these are different parts of
the course that you have to cover.
Them is different ways.
The battle chat box through,
uh, I used to have moderate are,
but I mean this course?
Uh I have few TS so I couldn't
assign a monitor for my lectures.
So from next time I assign ATA just to
monitor the chats and just to avoid any
other relevant and chatting in the chat box,
I agree to Ma.
Also agree I try my best to stop
at for instance when I move from
a new one old topic in new topic.
Stop at that moment and then
ask for your question.
This way there is no distraction
between the lecture topics and the.
Kiane are from students. I agreed that.
About the assignments are the lectures.
Better wording to I try to make it better.
I'm not a native English speaker,
so I try my best.
Uh, about the more weights.
Honestly,
this course is a technical course,
so I have to put more weight for the labs.
And one thing is that I hear this
from some of these students because
they don't want to learn coding or
they don't like it or they scare of
coding and they find coding hard.
They want to collect the points
from the lecture assignments.
But believe me at any point,
as a computer scientist you have
to start coding and this is a good
opportunity for you to start that.
So do not despair of coding child code
and collect the points from coding
instead of just lecture assignments.
Without, the labs are more details,
I mean correctly.
Our manuals have three or four pages.
If I add more details in the front
end pages of manual and it's boring.
So if you want to have more details again.
Attend lab sections and ask the
lab instructor to help you.
It's not synchronized.
I agree,
yes, uh. For instance,
the lab 06 has some questions that
we are going to cover this week.
I tried to fix it.
I tried my best to be synchronized.
Each week we covered the topics
of the submission assignments.
About the exam, the first comment
through AH I have to fix this.
If I'm going to take the
exam during the class,
the timing should be the same out of
the class timing and other questions.
I'm not sure about the what
question were not covered.
Uh, basically there were some one question
about the massive would record and.
The buyers.
Uh, during the election that we
discussed the bootstrap bootstrapping
of the kernel summer student.
I mean one student ask about why buyers
do not a bootstrapping kernel directly.
And honestly, I like that question.
That's a sign of critical
thinking of this student.
So, and I explained that, and, uh,
that's why I put it in the question,
because, uh,
that's the way that a critical thinker
actually wants to challenge is solution.
So if you think that there are some
questions that we didn't cover
and it just let me know, and, uh,
we can discuss and we can fix it, yeah?
So now we can start with topic,
but before that I'm ready for your questions.
So we have.
Google it person who abuses God.
Uh, yes I will release
the as an announcement.
I will release this stat on the midterm.
Uh marks, uh, I mean just right after
the class I will release that, yeah?
I wanted to release that in the 6:00 AM,
but as you know Blackboard is not
available during the 5:00 AM to 6:00 AM.
So I will release it soon, yeah?
Thank you. Oh
ah, the timing I I will.
I will either reduce the
number of questions or, uh,
I mean increase the timing.
Yes, I mean I, I agree with that.
I mean we need more time
for the questions, yeah?
I fixed that too, yeah.
Do you think a teacher asks,
do you think you could incorporate
suggested readings from the
textbook such as we champion too?
Then we could possibly do a 5 minute
inquired discussion about this section.
Ah. About this chapter.
It was about the standardizing
the units, I believe.
This is a good idea.
I mean basically we say
that I mean, uh read.
I mean chapter two and then uh,
come to the class and discuss
about the topics of that chapter.
That's a good idea.
Uh, let me think about that and.
That's that's a good idea.
That's a good idea, I mean,
but the on the on the The thing is,
the book that we have is an
advanced system programming.
So there are some topics that it's kind of.
I mean, uh, if you are interested,
you can follow them,
but for this course it's
kind of advanced topics.
But, uh, definitely, yes.
Yeah we can do that.
Good afternoon swimming pool.
Oh, you mean any any any topic in the book?
Yes, uh, from now you'll see that the
the the overlap between the topics that
we cover from the book from now on,
it's much more than the previous weeks
because the previous weeks was kind of,
I mean, preliminary topics that you have
to know about the operating systems.
That's why there were no overlap.
But from now on there's a huge
overlap and you can simply.
Find what location of the book we
are covering in the lectures, yeah?
OK, so let's just start and then I'll.
In the office hour we can discuss more,
uh, you can attend in the office
hour and we can discuss more. OK.
So today we are going to finish the
chapter three of the book and we touch
on some part of the Chapter 4 but not.
Are all parts also there
are two more chapters,
Chapter 5 and there's another chapter,
chapter six.
These are very detailed part of
the Unix operating system and
we are not going to cover it.
We leave it as an advanced topics.
If you are interested,
you can read about that,
but today you are going to finish with
topics related to the File Manager
part of the kernel or file system.
So just a quick recap,
we are in the File Manager
and part of the kernel.
And, uh, he said that, uh,
we are at the high level
abstractions of the file system as
an application level programmer.
We can do system call to the
kernel to do operation on files.
And we said that whenever we say 5 at
the exact time, we may mean devices.
So whenever we say file,
we can mean device or vice versa.
There are two main header files,
file control.
And Unix standard header file.
These are collection of system files
that system calls that we use as a
programmer to work on the files or devices.
There were two main a flow or workflow or
flow chart working with divisor devices.
The first one is just creating a
new file or device and then by the
return file descriptor you can start
writing anything and then close it.
The limitation of trade was that define
descriptor is only able to do writing.
We cannot read with the file descriptor
returned by the create function system code.
The better way is the open system called,
which basically with the
return file descriptor.
We can not only read also right.
And also if the file doesn't exist,
we can add a flag and we can create a
new file with the system called open
so everything can be done by the open.
There's no need for create and then close
the file descriptor when we are done.
Uh, these are the flags of five important
flags to the open system called, uh.
We said that each of them should be used.
Uh, I mean alone,
we cannot use make use combination of them.
Read only write only read
and write and these two. Uh,
we said that we are not going to cover this,
but I'm planning to cover this part,
which is an interesting and
important part in the lecture.
07. Sorry lab 07. Next week's lab.
So I'm going to explain this in that lab and
then you can know what what's this option.
And. Then we said that now that
we can open a file or device,
we can read or write.
But the main question is that.
We are reading from what location
of the file or we are writing
to what location of the file.
That was the reason that we I just
put this a brilliant dialogue of
the Jack Nicholson in this movie.
You want me on that wall or
you need me on that wall.
Basically I wanted to in
promote the idea of Sentinel.
The ideal Sentinel is, uh,
you will see this idea in many,
uh, places in computer science.
Basically,
whenever you need something to keep
track of a loop or another thing,
this is called Sentinel.
So this is a kind of design pattern.
So.
In order to know where we read from
the file or where we write to the file,
there is a system called elsik.
So before I explain this we
this system called we said that.
When you open or create a new file or device,
one Sentinel is assigned only one assigned
to that file or device called correct offset.
Initially it is 0.
The first position or the first part
of the file or device and then the
more you read or write from the device,
the correct.
Offset moves only forward so
always moving forward.
And, uh,
you can never, uh,
go back backward even if
you want to right away.
So as an example,
you have the file descriptor so remember
file descriptor doesn't move while
descriptor is just attached to the file,
just to show that you're
connected to the file.
Another sentiment moves within the file
or device which is the current offset.
So assuming you open an existing
file with the file descriptor FT and
then you read this amount of bytes.
Meaning that you read a 11 bytes and
now the current offset because it left.
If you read another one, it becomes 12.
If you write another bite,
it writes from this location.
So if you write it just right on
disposition and it becomes 12.
So you may think that I mean
is it zero base or one days?
It's a detail I'm not going
to go to that detail,
so whether it you counted by 012 or etc,
or in the search from one to whatever,
the main idea is that the idea of
Sentinel and one Sentinel assigned to any
file or device which is correct upset.
So now you see the purpose of
elsik by doing this system call,
you can move the current offset.
Because, uh, before the LCD,
the only way you can move the
offset is just by reading or writing
and you only move it forward.
But the LCK actually provides you at the
ability to move forward or backward.
You can play with the current of self.
And here is the, uh, prototype or the,
uh, post standard.
You provide the file descriptor to the
file and then you provide in number.
There was a typo in my previous slides.
I thought that this is an unsigned,
but in the practice I use it as
a negative number.
So basically the correct one
is designed number.
So you can provide positive
or negative number.
In order to add or decrements
the offset and another important
parameter is the when's.
When's means that from where
the origin of the calculation in
order to move the offset so it has
three options seksat,
meaning that from the start.
Sorry I don't have my pan store
correct in that from the current
offset value of the current offset
and from the last part of the file.
And here is the way I showed a.
So if the current offset is 11,
you can ask the LC to move the
current offset based on the start
of the file based on the end of
the file or based on the current
position forward or backward.
And here is an example so you
can ask the file descriptor to
move five bytes forward from the
beginning of the file.
So far,
and then if the current position was 11,
the new position becomes fine,
so the return value from the LC
after this system called becomes 5.
We can do it from the end of the file
so far from the end means that from the
end of the file count five backwards.
So now the correct position becomes 25,
so be careful. It's just not 11 + 5 - 5.
Basically, when is end of the file.
The current offset is based on,
so you have to count all these points up
until here because the current offset.
You can change the law of
sadness and current position.
So now you can based on
the current position.
Positive number basically moves.
Forward. Negative number
basically moves backward.
So.
The return is the new current offset.
The new value for the current
offset, which is an integer.
And one thing is that, uh?
So far we said.
Uh, the current offset changes by the
read or write or by the LC system code.
But what if we just want to know
the value of the current offset
without doing any system call?
Uh, without doing any action
because the reader right or the
open make it initially open?
I created zero reader, right?
Move it forward L signaling forward
or backward, but their return is just
in new value of the current offset.
But what if we don't want
to move the current offset?
We just want to know the current
value of the offset without any movie.
So here is a most famous use
case for the elsik.
Basically you can say that a
move from the current position.
Zero amount. Basically,
the current offset doesn't move any.
I mean, uh, any bites,
so their return is basically the
current position of the current offset.
So at anytime if you need the
correct the value of the current
offset or the the position that you
want to read or you want to write,
but you haven't done it yet,
is you have to call this L stick
with the zero value from the
correct position and their return
is the value of the current offset.
Another a use case for the Elswick is this.
There we said that I mean, uh,
you can apply these operations
on devices not only on files.
So what if a device is not seekable,
meaning that you are not allowed to move
forward or backward on that device?
For instance,
in a printer you can just move forward.
You cannot ask the printer to go backward.
So in order to check whether
the device is seekable.
Meaning that you can do seeking,
or you can move the current
offset forward or backward.
You can use the same system called
with the same a parameter for
knowing the correct offset if.
The value return is minus one,
meaning that that device for that
part doesn't support seeking.
So this is the way before any doing.
Doing any seeking.
You have to check whether the
underlying device or underlying file is
seekable or now and then do your seat.
And here is an example.
I upload the sample file uh next
to this slide in the blackboard.
So in the lab 06 you saw that whenever
you connect to the server in this school
because you are not in the server room,
you're not physically attached to the server.
Every ritual terminal is
assigned to you called TTY,
which is basically teletype terminal.
It's a virtual terminal is
not a physical terminal.
In order to know this physical device by this
command you know the name of your device.
In the lab 06 A you know
how to connect this device,
open it and write to it or read from it.
So here I just wanted to see that
this device is seekable or not.
Can I change the current offset of the
terminal, move forward or backward?
So in order to do that,
I opened this device.
And then I just simply called the LC
or we just do not move the current
offset from the current position.
If you call this the value if it is,
my spine is that the device is not seekable.
So when you build it and then run it,
you see that it goes inside the if.
Basically meaning that this device
is not seekable.
So you are not allowed to move the
current offset off your virtual terminal.
Or any other a device that is not seekable.
So another issue with the LC keys
this what if at some point we, uh,
suddenly by mistake or whatever?
We changed the current offset
after the size of the file.
So if you have for instance
100 bytes of data in a file.
What if I and this is the correct
offset as the point for instance 50?
And then I do a seek.
From the current position to
the plus hundred and in that it
should go to the position 150.
But the file has only has has only 100 bytes,
what happens?
Another thing is that what
happens if you move it backward.
So if you do minus 100,
so basically the current offset comes
before the first position of the file.
So when it becomes negative,
uh, there is no specific uh,
operation about that.
So it depends on the implementation
of the operating system.
Linux has its own way to deal
with the negative current offset.
Uh, I mean, Mac West has its own way,
but about the.
A passing the size of fire.
There is a standard. So if you
change the current offset and it goes.
After the last point of the file.
The operating system waits.
And at the next, uh, read or write, it adds.
Zeroes up until the new current offset.
Basically it does padding.
It pads the the this missing part by zero.
This is called in opera
operating system whole.
Basically, the operating system
should provide the whole of zeros
and all are zeros or null value.
So in order to see that again,
there's another example.
I will upload it next to this slide.
So here I write a C code called whole.
I open a file.
This file is not there,
so I use the flag or create open create
meaning that if it's not there creating
new one and these are the permission
for the current file that is created.
And this is a file descriptor to
the open file or create a file.
And then when you open a new file,
there is no boy there,
so the current after the zero,
there's no information there.
Right after that I seek.
Sunday.
First position plus ten,
meaning that I want the cream
offset move forward 10 bytes.
And then I write this sentences
inside the file.
By doing this while.
So if you compile it and then run it,
you if I open the created
file you'll see that.
The space before the first written
character is all null values or
backslash 0 if you have dumped the file,
you see the actual zero values and these are
the hexadecimal value of the characters,
right?
And there's another noise command.
Octal dump holding means that octal damn
heads down means that hexadecimal to
octal dump actually shows the backlist isiro,
and then they each character of the fight.
So this is called whole.
So you have to be careful not to,
uh,
I mean,
create a hole in your file because
you are wasting just I mean
space of the uh storage device
or any other devices.
But these are all,
I mean a very small use case of LC LC.
Actually you can use it to check
whether the device is seekable.
What is the value of the current offset and,
uh, I mean making the whole or whatever.
But the best use case for the LC is a can
be shown in the algorithms when you're
processing information in a huge file.
Probably you heard about binary search.
So any of you have a any
idea about binary search?
What is binding said?
Do you remember?
So can you explain what is binary search?
OK, the first Michelle Michelle says that,
uh, it should be a sorted list, correct?
So when you have a sorted information and
you want to find one element, what do you do?
Exactly, basically in order just. You can do.
I mean check any element of your list
with the one that you want to find.
So it takes if you have an element.
It is big ON, so you have
to check all the elements.
But if the elements are sorted you
can check you can make a half of
it and check the value that you're
looking for with the middle element.
If it is less than that element,
you say you continue your
search first first point.
If it is greater than that element,
you continue with the second part.
So each time you make a half of your list,
because this list is sorted.
So. Yes behavior and Michelle
actually correctly said that.
So this is the best a use case for.
Else imagine that you have a
huge files file of numbers.
For instance student numbers,
but they are all sorted and
you're looking for one student ID.
So basically you check that element
with the element in the middle.
If it is a greater you go with the
second part and then you continue
the same way for the second part we
check with the middle element of the
second part if it is less than that,
you continue with the the support within the.
I mean below. And then you find your element.
So again. The whole list.
Check with this middle elements if
it is greater, go to the second part,
lower, go to the first part.
And then you continue the same
with the second part,
up until you find the your element.
So how do you find the middle element?
Either you read the whole bytes
up until the middle element,
or you can just use the L seek to
move the current offset to the middle
element and just read the Middle Earth.
So this is the best way to use
the LC for the binary search on a
a file that has information that
has assorted information.
And now we are going to go. I mean,
introduce a new topic duplication.
But before that I'm ready for your questions.
Any questions?
Yes, behavior OD means octal dump.
Yes, hexadecimal hex, adamin,
hexadecimal dump or demons octal dump yet.
So I suck asks how does LC movie offset?
As I said you can.
So let me back. Ruby is a.
These are some samples, for instance.
If you call the elsik for the
file descriptor FT. If you put
when standing from where it's at,
meaning that you are going to move the
offset from the beginning, how much file?
So imagine you are going to
find the middle elements.
How do you find the middle element?
You know the size of your file,
so you can simply in this number.
In this number you can simply say
that the size of file divided by two.
Then the current offset
goes to the middle element.
Uh, what? It makes the Colonel do.
You don't answer your
question right side or. Nadia.
Nicholas asked the application level.
With the whole be used to split the
file header of the file structure.
Oh, you mean kind of a differentiate
the header file on the header part of
the file and the I mean the body or the
information part of the file. Any, uh,
yeah, anything about the file structure?
How you provide information in file.
But again in this course file means device.
But there is another course called
file structure or I mean the knee.
The academic name is information
storage and retrieval.
That course is specifically
designed for you to know how to
store information in files.
Then you know how to use the.
For instance holds, not.
Honestly they don't use whole.
For instance, the they use CSV,
meaning that comma separated values,
or different ways to separate the header of
part of the file from the body of the file.
So that course deals with any
any related issue about that.
But for us we are just going to explain.
What happens when you change the
current offset after the?
I mean the size of the file.
But this is a good way.
I mean to separate the header file part of
the file from the body part of the file.
Just to say that I mean,
yeah.
A high success that how does the
kernel no ways. Well, it is in a file.
Oh, it's it's just a value in the kernel,
so I like so that that's a good question.
That's a good question.
Uh, but very shortly I'll explain
it just in next few slides when
you ask the kernel to returning
file descriptor for you, such as,
I mean by doing the open system code
or by doing the create system fault.
So the FT which is returned
by the system call.
At that moment, the kernel credit table
or information that keep tracks of
anything related to that file descriptor.
One of the information is the correct offset,
so the kernel have that has that value.
And whenever you do another system called
read or another system called right,
they cannot change the value of that.
Just about it's variable.
Uh, so initially it is zero,
so when a by reading you have to
pass the number of files that
you want to read by the buffer.
So when the kernel does the actual reading,
it knows how many bytes is red.
So it added that value to the current offset.
So just a variable in the inside the
kernel for each file descriptor.
Yes, uh, it's a it's a basically
for each process is there is a
table which keep tracks of any
information about that process.
So one main part of that. Table is.
Information about the open file
descriptors by the process I will I
will show you in next few slides, yeah?
So let's continue.
OK, so the next system called
about the operation on the file is
the duplication or dot dot or .2.
So the idea is this,
I I'll explain the idea and then
I'll explain what's the benefit,
why we wanna such a thing. So.
The operating system allows you to have
multiple file descriptor to the same file.
So basically, if you have your
process on site inside the memory.
You can open the file whenever
you open the file you have a new
file descriptor to that file.
Also you can you are allowed to do
another system called the same file.
And as a result,
the recent new file descriptor
assigned to the next new system called.
So at any time that you do a system called
open in new unused file descriptor is
assigned or return by the kernel to you.
So then you may have,
for instance 2 free or thousands of
file descriptor to its same file.
I'll explain why you wanna do such a thing,
so this is the, uh,
one ability that you can ask
from the Colonel.
So the kernel doesn't check whether
there is already another file
descriptor assigned to the same
file at anytime you call the open,
it assigns a new file descriptor for you.
But a better way to do such a
thing is a another system called
called duck or duplicate.
So it's very simple.
It is in the Unix standard.
You pass the current file descriptor
and you call the system called
and the kernel create a new file
descriptor to the same file that this
file descriptor actually points to.
So again, the same font.
And here is the slide that I wanted.
I I said I I'll explain.
So when the program bootstraps
inside the memory,
the kernel provides a table of
information to keep track of
anything about that process.
One important part of that information
is about the file descriptors
that are opened by the process.
So as you can see here for this
process we have four or more
than four file descriptors.
12 then.
Or directing or pointing to the orange file.
And two of them are directing
or opening another blue file.
For each open file there is the
information which basically keep tracks
of any information about that file.
The current status of that file.
Also, these information are I
mean tracked by the kernel.
So one information about
anything related to the process,
one set of information about
anything related to the open files.
So you can see the orange
file has a 5 pointer called.
It's called file pointer.
The information here is, uh,
I mean maintained by the kernel.
Well, the blue file will have the
file pointer for the blue one.
Again, this part also handled by the kernel.
So. When you do a system call by the dope,
basically, uh, you make a copy.
A fight descriptor,
but again as you can see here to the
same information about that file.
So you can see that this is the
important information inside the
kernel about each open file,
current file offset,
so that's your answer I saw.
Each file when you open it, uh,
this 5 pointer actually had,
I mean,
maintained by the kernel keeps
track of the offset to that file.
So. The main important thing
about this figure is this.
Although you have for instance 2
file descriptor to the same file,
but you have one set of
information about the file.
They specifically have one
value of current offset.
It means that if you do right by the FT1.
To that file, for instance, 2 bytes.
The correct offset gonna added by two.
And then for instance,
the current offset moves forward.
And this affects the FD three as well,
because if the three is
using the same information.
So the next time that the FT
three wants to read or write it,
read or writes from the position
that the FT1 make it change.
So that's very important.
Uh? I mean, uh.
Thing about the duplication system call,
so the duplication system
called doesn't create.
A new file doesn't create a new
information about the file,
it just create a new copy
of the file descriptor.
Any copy by the duplication refers
to the same information set.
So they are going to use
the same current offset.
Any of them change the current offset.
It gonna propagate or going to
affect the other file descriptors.
The same with the blue one.
So if you write information with the FP2.
He asked,
he cleaned off that gonna be
moved forward and this gonna
be seen by the FT 4 which is
the copy of the ethnicity.
Why I'm telling this?
Because as I said, you can create multiple
file descriptor to a file bar open.
So why we introduce duplication
when we can do with the open?
The reason is this. When you create
a new file descriptor by the open.
Open. Create in new information.
Table about each open file.
So each return file descriptor by
the open has its own information
or properties and correct offset.
As a result, when you could do FD one,
when you call the open and you
do for instance read or write,
it's totally different from the next.
Five descriptor by the next open.
However, if you do duplication for
by the duplication system called,
the information is the same.
So there's a huge difference
by the open totally.
There are still one single file,
but two different or two or more
different sets of information.
As a result,
different sets of current offset.
If a one fight descriptor by the
open changes the current offset,
it's totally distinct from
the other file descriptors.
But for the duplication,
because the information is the same if
one of the file descriptor changes,
they inform current offset.
It's going to be seen by
the other file descriptors.
If it is created by the duplication system.
So now that we know how
the duplication works,
what's the benefit of that?
So the main benefit of the duplication
is the IO redirection or standard
I or standard Arabic direction.
So in order to explain this,
I have to tell you a story.
You remember I said are in.
Even in the lab 06 I said that
there are three numbers that
are reserved for standard input,
output and error.
012 If you ask a new file descriptor
always the kernel provides a file
descriptor which is greater than two.
These are fixed and they are
going to be used by the standard
input and output devices.
So their story is this.
When you use the shell to Buddhist Rab,
your program and make
your program as a process.
The shell automatically assigns
the file descriptors 01 and two.
Two, your virtual terminal.
So it's not a physical keyboard,
it's not the physical printer or monitor,
but it is the virtual terminal.
And these file descriptors
is already attached to this
terminal without your knowledge,
it's automatically done by the shell.
As a result.
When you start your program,
your main function whenever you just
write to the zero file descriptor or
read from the zero file descriptor you
are reading from your virtual terminal.
So there is no need for you
to open or create a.
Uh, or do a system call on your
terminal because it's already done
by the shell and it's already.
There are three different file
descriptor attached return.
So here is an example.
So in the lab 06, in order to read
or write from your virtual terminal,
you were asked to do this.
So basically you have to do the
TTY command to know the number
of your terminal and then you
have to open your terminal.
Read only or write only and then
read it from your terminal and
then if you want to write it you
have to for instance open it right
and then write to your terminal.
Based on these three, I told you.
Because before when your program
becomes processed by the shell,
the shell already done
does this commands for you,
so there is no need for you
to write these lines of code.
Already the standard input 0.
And also the standard output
one and also the other one.
The error are not going to talk about that,
it's already attached to your terminal.
So you can simply start reading or writing
reading from the standard input zero
and writing to the standard output 1.
Both of them are attached
to your virtual device,
so as a result you're reading
and writing from your terminal.
Another way is that the writing this
this is a kind of professional way,
because these are just constants,
so you can use the actual value of the
file descriptor read from the zero right 21.
Why these two commands are working?
These two system color working
because the shell already.
Uh, did the system call to attach
this file descriptors to the terminal?
So you see here these are already
connected to the terminal.
And if you do multiple times,
for instance, if you write these commands.
These are just additional file
descriptors to the same terminal.
So all are connected to the same terminal.
We can try this sample.
I upload these sample and you see
that I mean even if you write
these commands or these two or
these two all have the same effect.
So the story begins now.
Now that we know the shell attaches these
three file descriptors to the terminal.
We want to. Detach one of them and
then attach it again to another device.
It's called a redirection instead
of just connecting to the terminal,
we wanted disconnect deaths.
And then re attach it to another file.
For instance, instead of just
wanted to ride into the terminal,
we want to write to a file.
For instance, the file in your C drive.
So assuming you have a file log TXT.
You want to detach this TV out.
The file descriptor.
Run detached from the original
terminal and attach it to your file
and now whatever you write to the
one you are writing to the log file
is such as writing to your terminal.
This is called redirection.
So how is this possible?
Here is an example.
So originally all the three file
descriptors are attached to your terminal.
You start your program and
you create a new log file.
Not file write only and it is not there.
You create a new one.
So by this command,
by this system called in new file,
the red file here is going to be
created and the return file descriptor
FTW are going to be attached to that.
The next step is that we have to detach the
file descriptor that we want to redirect.
So basically, in order to detach,
you have to close that file descriptor.
There is no deal big
difference between this one.
So you detach you or close
this system file descriptor 1.
It is very similar to other file descriptors,
just a number.
So when you close it, it is now free.
And then you duplicate your a file descriptor
that is already attached to your log file.
When you duplicate, the kernel tries
to reuse the available file descriptor.
What is the available file descriptor one
so it attaches one as a duplicate of the
current file descriptor and the return value?
This new file descriptor
devalue is exactly what?
And this way you are redirecting
the standard output to your file.
And from now on, if you read
from the descriptive one.
Or write to the descriptor one
you are not going to see on the
terminal terminal, but you are
going to see it in your log file.
So if you compile this file and then run it,
I just put the command here.
Hey again in the.
Input for the terminal.
But, uh, I write this to the terminal,
but because I really directed
the app standard output,
it goes to the log file.
So if you open your log file,
you see whatever I write to
the terminal into your file.
There is another way to redirect the IO
without programming inside the shell.
The shell actually does the same thing,
but it provides a new way.
So if you write your program name
of your program and then provide
in name of your file with this.
Greater or greater command.
Basically what it does is that it
says whatever the output of the
program to the standard output
should be redirected to this file.
So your program, whatever your program
produces to the standard output.
Gonna be redirected. To the new.
A file or device you can be
directed to a new device as well.
I mean, for instance the printer,
whatever the program output is
just going to be a terminal,
goes to your printer.
So behind the scene,
the shell actually does the
same lines of code.
I can't do it yourself,
or you can ask Michelle do that for you.
So this story can be continued with
the other standard, uh, descriptors.
How we can redirect the input
standard for our descriptor?
How we can redirect the standard
error a file descriptor?
This is the part that you
need your critical thinking.
And another, uh, thing is this.
What if I duplicate?
The standard input, what happens?
Anybody has any idea?
So far we duplicate a the file descriptor
that is already attached to a file.
But 01 and two, it's already attached
to the terminal by the shell.
What happens if I duplicate
these standard file descriptors?
Again, I live for you to think about that.
So based on these figures
that I am in draw for you,
you can draw it yourself and see.
This is the zero which
is attached to terminal.
So if you call the cricket on the zero,
basically there gonna be another
file descriptor attached to the.
Terminal, for instance 5.
So what's the benefit of that?
So. Another a system call is duplicate two.
This is a next version of the
duplicate you can read from the book.
This is the part that we can discuss
about that in the office or in the class.
You can read about this from the
book and we can discuss it later.
And how many time you have?
So we have five more times.
So another topic about the file
system is the IO efficiency,
buffered and unbuffered.
This is a very.
A beautiful question raised by the
student in the discussion board.
Uh, in the C program you usually
use F printer, printer, scanner,
STD IO methods which are library routines.
In this course we said
that you cannot use them.
We have to do a system call
by Unix standard helephant.
So whatever function from this header
file is a system called whatever
method from this library routine.
This header file is a library routine.
What's the difference?
The difference is between whether
they are buffered or unbuffered.
Again, I'm not going to discuss this.
But I leave it for you to search about
that and see what's the difference.
I give you the keyboard,
so then you can do a search
and read about that from the
book and from the Google.
Also, file sharing?
Uh, this is an advanced topic.
We are not going to cover it.
What happens if multiple programs so far?
We assume that there's only one
program in the computer system.
What happens if we have multiple
programs accessing the same file?
These are the issues related
to file sharing and.
In the remaining time, I'm going to
explain something about file system.
If I have enough time, yes.
So if you don't mind,
I'm going to have some questions.
So maybe some?
We have
yeah, I'm asked that, uh,
I I didn't want to use the word
piping because later will explain
what is piping, but you're right,
actually piping behind the
scene is there redirection.
So yes, you're right.
Uh. Mason asks so multiple opens,
two different process.
No, no, no. So all of these
are a batches one process.
We have only one process,
but this process can have
multiple file descriptor to
multiple devices or files.
Although we discussed it
just about one process.
Would decided who decided STD in should be 0.
10 This is a good question, uh,
the values of there's a history behind that.
Uh, from the beginning Unix,
a zero was from the input device,
which is basically keyboard and
one from the output, which was,
I mean, printed, and then later
becomes the monitor and then error,
which used to be printer.
But again, you'll see that error
is always redirected to the output.
Device you can reject that to the output
device, but the value of the devalue
the actual value of the constant value. Uh,
in operating system there is a header file.
Ah, ah. I I put this in the next
slides of the previous way.
Uh, in the I think it's it is in
the AF control header file FC&TL HA.
These constants are defined there.
So STD IO sorry STD in file number is 0.
This is a constant in a header file.
STD out underline fine number is 1 and etc.
The values are constant,
but you can have your own operating
system and change their value.
But, uh,
who attaches this point descriptor
to the share to the terminal?
The shell does that.
When you ask the shell to bootstrap
your program behind the scene,
it does those lines of code to attach
these file descriptors to the terminal.
So we have a.
Showed up for your viewers DVD one of it.
Oh, this is a nice question.
This is a very nice question.
Uh, let me go to that.
Yes, this is not your hobby asked that?
Uh, when we release the file descriptor 1?
And then we right after that there should
be nothing here right after that we
duplicate an existing file descriptor.
How we are sure that the kernel assigns 1?
As a duplicate for this file descriptor.
Assuming that we have only one process,
and assuming that the file
descriptors are only shared by the,
I mean the same set of file descriptors
are assigned by the kernel to a process.
Uh, then whenever the kernel
wants to assign a file descriptor,
it starts from the lowest number.
So you remember we said that
a file descriptor is a value
01 up until a maximum number,
and this maximum number is somewhere
in the file control as a constant.
Whenever you ask a file descriptor
whether it's by the open or by the create,
the canal tries to find the lowest number.
So because 01 and two is already assigned,
you usually receive three right after.
Whenever you open a new file.
That's what I mean in the first few example,
if you will print out the actual number,
you'll see three.
You never see 012 because they are
already assigned to the terminal.
When you release one of them,
for instance two or one.
Again, whenever you want to ask
a new file descriptor,
the kernel tries to search from the file
descriptor set from the lowest number.
That's why it makes sure that,
uh, this line receives 1.
But there is a better way to do that.
Make sure that always a one is
assigned by the duplicate two
that you can read from the book.
So we have we have two input string.
Yes, I saw it correctly.
Uh, when you duplicate a zero,
you have two file descriptor.
As a result you can't write by two
file descriptor to the standard.
Sorry read from standard input.
Uh, the the example just wanted
to show that there is no big
difference between the duplicate
of the standard file descriptors
012 and any other file descriptors.
Uh.
OK, uh Jean, who asks?
What's the purpose of second FT?
In which line? Jinhua second saying
as he created by the duplication.
Second FT is created,
but the value is not the same.
Oh, you mean here a way to say?
This one. Why we create a new
file descriptor out of 0?
Is this the question, yeah.
Now you can, I mean.
Two feet.
Oh, you mean uh? I mean, what's
the purpose of duplicating folders
scripted as I mean uh, the the, uh?
Uh, based on what we've covered so far?
Uh, this is the reason.
Which direction in order to answer
your question, this one redirection.
Because without the duplicating you are not.
You cannot duplicate a file descriptor.
So without duplicating,
you are not a able to redirect
the standard IO file descriptors.
This is one reason.
But later a when we explain that
you can have multiple processes,
then I can explain more,
but for now the main reason of
duplicating or having two file
descriptor is redirecting IO. So let me.
Explain, I mean show it again.
So here you'll see that there are
two file descriptor attached.
To the same file.
So why you because of from at this line next?
I mean from now on you don't need
this file descriptor anymore.
You are just using this one,
but in order to redirect the standard
file descriptor you have to have an
already attached file descriptor.
Makes sense, John Hall.
So yeah, the only thing that you want to do,
pick it if I descriptor is that when you
want to redirect or attach a standard
file descriptor 01 or two to that file.
Because in order to do that,
you have to already have a
file descriptor to that file.
But this is for now.
Later I will see that a parent
process can create child processes
and then it can pass the file.
This multiple file descriptor
to multiple child processes and
then whatever they are doing is
managed by the parent process.
So basically, for instance,
I'm a parent and I have multiple children,
so I created file.
This multiple file descriptors
and then I give this file
descriptor to a different child
and whenever they are writing,
they don't know that they are writing
in the same file or in the same device.
I know that,
but they think that they are ready
to different file descriptors.
And because, uh, these are file
descriptors to the same file,
and by the duplication,
for instance, if a child right two
bites and another child, right?
Three bites that three boys
doesn't override the other bytes,
because there are, I mean,
the current offset is shared
between all the file descriptors.
Uh, yes, uh. One way is this?
Yeah pilot pro? I mean parallel,
uh processing inside the file?
Yes yeah. Yeah.
This is one thing.
OK, so if you don't have,
we have more slides.
Honestly, you don't have.
We have to finish it.
But I mean next session I'm going
to quickly explain these and then.
I wish I could finish it today,
but I mean next uhm meet.
I mean next lecture we are going
to finish the file system and then
we move toward the process manager.
Another main part of the kernel.
Yes, yes. So kids are an important
part of our topics. Yeah,
we have to cover these circuits as well.
It's part of the network manager.
Thank you so much for your time and uh,
have a great day.
I'm going to be in the office so if
you have any questions let me know.
And that's it. I mean just one more thing.
Try to review your mark and
if you have any problem,
contact your lab instructor.
Do it soon. Do not leave it up
until I mean one month after.
Thank you thank you Sir and have a great day.
Thank you Nicholas.
OK, so we have some I have to.